Plotting with Categorical Data

catplot [Figure Level Function]

1. Categorical Scatter Plots .

a. Strip Plot
b. Swarm Plot

2. Categorical distribution Plots .

a. Box Plot
b. Violin Plot

3. Categorical estimate plots .

a. Point Plot
b. Bar Plot
c. Count Plot

4. Categorical Categorical plots .

a. Heat Map
b. Cluster Map

5. Plotting side by side graphs using Facet Grids .

Scatter Plots

The scatter plot is a mainstay of statistical visualization . It depicts the joint distribution of two variables using a cloud of points , where each point represents an observation in the dataset . This depiction allows the eye to infer a substantial amount of information about whether there is any meaningful relationship between them .

Although, scatter plot can be plotted for both numerical as well as categorical data , it's mostly used to depict relationship between numerical data .

There are 2 ways to draw a scatterplot in seaborn are as :

1. relplot() which is a "Figure Level Function" .
2. scatterplot() which is a "Axes Level Function" .

The scatter plot use simple and easily to understood representations of data even on complex data by mapping up to three additional variables using the semantics of hue , size , and style .

Box Plots

A box plot is a standardized way of displaying the distribution of data based on a five number summary ( "minimum" , first quartile (Q1) , median , third quartile (Q3) , and "maximum" ) . It can tell you about your outliers and what their values are . It can also tell you if your data is symmetrical, how tightly your data is grouped , and if and how your data is skewed .

Violin Plots

A violin plots are a method of plotting numeric data and can be considered a combination of the box plot with a kernel density plot . The unquestionable advantage of the violin plot over the box plot is that aside from showing the statistics it also shows the entire distribution of the data . They are often used to compare the distribution of a given variable across some categories .

Heat Maps

A heat maps is a graphical representation of data where the individual values contained in a matrix are represented as colors . 

Joint Plots

The joint plots creates a multi-panel figure that shows both the bivariate or joint relationship between two variables along with the univariate or marginal distribution of each on separate axes .

The joint plots can be used in the following 4 manners:

1. Scatter Plots
2. Hexbin Plots
3. Kde Plots
4. Reg Plots

Pair Plots

The pair plots are used to plot multiple pairwise bivariate distributions in a dataset . This creates a matrix of axes and shows the relationship for each pair of columns in a dataframe. By default , it also draws the univariate distribution of each variable on the diagonal axes .

Dist Plots

The dist plots are used to do univariate analysis on a continous/numerical data .

The dist plot combines 3 things in one graph are as follows :

1. hist() : Histogram
2. kde() : Kernel Density Estimation
3. rug() : Rugplot

Line Plots

The line plots are generally used for time series data .

Facet Grids

The facet grids are used for plotting multiple graphs side by side .
